1. pwd

Description: Prints the full pathname of the current working directory.
Example:pwd
Print the name of the current working directory.

2. vi

Description: It is a visual text editor. If you want to edit a file you can use this command along with the filename which needs to be edited.
Example: vi Book
                The screen will clear and the text of your file will appear on the screen. if the filename ie Book is not avaiable, vi will start you in a new file and
                you tell it to save your work,it will use the filename that you specified. 

3. touch

Description: It is the easiest way to create new, empty files. It is also used to change the timestamps on existing files and directories.
Example: touch Book1
                Creates a new empty file names Book1.

4. mkdir

Description: Creates a new directory if the specified directory doesnt already exist.
Example: mkdir myDir
               Creates a new directory called myDir whose parent is the current directory.

5. rm

Description: Removes the files or directories specified.
Example: rm myDir
                Removes the directory specified as myDir.

6. ls

Description: It is used to list files and directories. By default, it will list the content of the current directory.
Example: ls
                lists all the files and directories of the current directory.

7. echo

Description: It displays a line of text.
Example: echo Hello
                Displays Hello.

8. cat

Description: It is used to concatenate two or more files.
Example: cat file1  file2
                file1 and file2 contents are combined into single file in the file name file1.

9. who

Description: Displays all the information about who logged on to the system.
Example: who 
                Displays all the details of the person who logged in to the system. 

10. cd

Description: Changes the directory to the specified directory.
Example: cd myDir1
                Changes the current working directory into the specified directory myDir1.

11. date

Description: Prints the system's time and date information.
Example: date
                Date with no options used to display the system date and time.

12. cal

Description: Displays the calender in the command line.
Example: cal
                Displays the calender for this month.

13. mv

Description: Move or rename files.
Example: mv Book Book1
                Moves the Book file to the destination file name Book1.

14. cp

Description: It is used to copy files and directories.
Example: cp book book1
                Copied the conents of the file book to the file book1.

15. which

Description: Locates and displays the pathname of the executable file associated with a given command.
Example: which sh 
                Located the pathname of the file which would be run if the sh command were executed.